okay in this port here we got two
reference points that we can play with
one of them is the great pillar of power
and the other one is the bow of God we
were moved first thing look how much
that guy right here look at that you can
see the overhang just plain is day
that's come now I'm also going to bring
that aluminum down a little bit and
curtail and bleed so look how much air
the only thing it's going to be there is
that little 11 30 second stem which is
0.34 3 that God is 0.5 volt - and this
right here of course is thick so we're
dramatically reducing the solid stacks
you if you will of machine metal that
the air has to go around probably 20
percent I have to do the math on it from
343 to 505 so we've eliminated that and
that is a major turning point where that
air has to dump so look at the
difference there not come over here look
at our deal here no God
sticking out and unproven so right there
we got a kick butt now let's concentrate
on the real culprit here that is
absolutely a damn mess and they just did
not have to do it
but they did look at the straight line
if you will this is the divider okay now
if you come straight look what happens
to my little scribe boom it starts right
here and then goes out look at that that
right there is almost a half of an inch
from that straight wall where they put
that pillar now it is meant is somewhat
of a support I've seen situations and at
first it scared me when I did my first
set but I have successfully - probably
20 pairs of these heads that have never
had any problem with the support what
they used to do on the 18 degree head
they were
this area is so bad because this is a
major airflow area because if you
measure from right here to the shortest
point which is the short turn on the
seat this is the area right here that is
the line of sight is the shortest point
from point A to the valve seat at point
B so when the valve first starts to open
and the 1 and 200 lifts all of the air
is what's called main stream flow angle
which is the highest concentration of
mixed air and fuel it's hugging right
here then is the valve lips it starts to
switch and go the other direction to
area that's punch routed because it's
hunting for the path of least resistance
okay we got this giant hump here rotting
away now this is the one single reason
why most of the aftermarket heads I can
take a double hump head or a head like
this or any of them and no matter what C
and C program that these people are
putting their heads through because that
hump is in the way or they haven't put
the tube in it I'm going to have about a
10 to 15 sometimes 20 CFM advantage
because they're not going to purposely
break through and put a tube because
that is a machining process and remember
these companies are all about getting it
in and getting it out as fast as they
can that also means the human hands
would have to be involved
they can't automatically put epoxy in
put the tube in at least I don't know
yet that they can do it so this gives us
a distinct advantage one of my people or
one of my readers posted something on I
believe it was my LT one site getting an
argument with me about velocities and he
was trying to say that the air at the
seat of the valve down there that's
where the fastest velocity was and that
couldn't be further from the truth
the area is it sets at all is this area
right here this pinch point because that
controls what the rest of the port the
expansion rates going to do by
time the air gets down there excuse me
by the time the air gets to the bowl
it's already slowed down so dramatically
so anyway sorry that you had a
misconception now I'm trying to
straighten you out but this look I'll
take this right here lay in line and
look at that I'll turn it to the other
side and look it still just boom look at
that
so this pillar of power this Sun bitch
right here has to go and then of course
look at my roof hi I'm going to bring
that straight in let that roof come in I
got plenty of meat on the top and begin
the turn those are the two serious
tricks on this port and then putting the
two old five valve in it so that I can
straighten that under lip and blend and
roll that so I just want to show you now
at this point with the gods cut down
with the tubes room so I can slide the
two minute we're ready to start cutting
and this is the area I'll attack first
and get this straight so that way I can
go in there on my tool and start cutting
the pillar of power
all right that right there is all for
right now at this minute we'll continue
on now we're going to go on and step up
to the grind in and get this thing
butcher hog out I've only got to do this
32 times